The project uses a range of languages, framworks, and techniques such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python, Bootstrap, SQL, Flask and Jinja. I chose to do these because I found finance really difficult and wanted to be able to master the techniques used in that pset that I was unable to do in week 9.

For the login, the framework is taken from the CS50 finance pset for the app.py() so I used the functions from app.py of login and register from the pset, of which I created register. Then for the framework for those two pages I wanted them to look different from the overall design of the website. So, I used a bootstrap framework for a login page to create the aesthetic look and used a Jinja Template to create layout.html and I then assigned this the login.css page. The layout.html page, uses bootstrap to create the layout however, I didn't like the plain look or the colour scheme. I then overruled a lot of the properties of bootstrap using !important, most of the time to stop the classic bootstrap blue from coming through. I also changed the sidenav to have a picture to better show what the website's purpose is. The layout.html was then extended to two pages which were login.html and register.html. Within the register.html page, there are 3 input boxes so that the user can input their username and password and password again to confirm. Then there is a submit box to register, which runs the register function in the app.py, or a link to the login page if you already have the account. Then for the login.html page it is just two boxes for username and password, and then the submit box for login, which runs the login fucntion in the app.py, and the link to the register page if you hadn't registered. Additionally, if anything is entered incorrectly the apology function is called and the apology.html page is loaded which uses the frame work from the finance pset, but also includes links back to my register and login pages.

Then for the main website pages, a different layout is used which is in the file layoutmain.html. This page doesn't use bootstrap but instead just HTML, CSS (which is the main.css file), and JS. I wanted to create a hidden sidenav and learnt how to use javascript to create the functionality, and that is included in the template because I want it to appear on all of the pages. This layout is extended across three pages which are index.html, make.html, and view.html. Within the CSS file for main, I was able to manipulate lots of the HTML elements to be either black or the spotify green in order to give the website a consistent look which matched the purpose of the website - to create spotify playlists. For index.html, I used SQL commands to extract the username so that the user had a customised welcome, and then using lists and titles, I created usage instructions. Then for the make.html page, I created an input box and using CSS centred it on the page, changed the size and made it spotify green. There is also a button which is below the input box which when pressed causes the make definition to be run in the POST mode. It retrieves the users id and extracts the user's number of playlists from the list and dictionary. Then I initialise an empty list so that a new playlist can be created. Once the method has been confirmed to be post, the sentence is retrieved and split into words which is stored in a list. Then in order to achieve my best outcome, I check how many times the word is repeated after the word originally appears and store this in a variable. Afterwards, I open the CSV file in read mode and in dictionary form so that I am able to search the CSV file and extract the necessary data. Following which I used the lower function to make sure that capitalisation didn't matter in case of user error and go line by line to check if the word inputted is a match or not. If it is then it is checked if the number of repeats is greater than 0 or not and if it is, then that song is skipped but 1 is minused so that the number of skips is reduced so there is no repeating of songs. Then for the song the title, album, and artists are added to a list which is added to the playlist list.

Once all the words have been searched for, the length of the original list of words and the new list of songs is checked as to whether the length is the same or not. If they are not then the playlist can't be created so the make.html page is reloaded with valid being false. However if it is, first the playlist number is incremented by 1 and then the song number variable is set to be 0. Then I created the playlist ID to be the number of the playlist-number of the song we are on-userid, so that it is unique. This is what I had the most trouble with, because it needed to be unique for every song, every playlist, and every user, but by using a combination of all of this data I was able to succeed. Afterwards I updated the value of the number of playlists in the users database using SQL and then iterated through the songs in the playlist and added their information, along with the song's playlist ID and the user's ID, the latter of which would make it easy to search the database for a list of particular user's playlists. Then the make.html page is returned and valid is set to be true so that the user gets the success message.

The last page to use the same template is the view.html which shows the user's history of playlists. First all when the page is loaded I collect the necessary info, like the user ID and the playlist number is retrieved. Then using SQL I look at each playlist from 1 up to but not including the number of playlists + 1, and collect all of the songs in that particular playlist and add them as a playlist to the list of playlists. This is sent to the view.html page, where, by looping through the list of playlists and then the playlists themseleves, each playlist is written into a table with a title of the sentence and each song as a row with all of their necessary info. It does it in order from least recent to most recent!

Afterwards, the logout link in the side navbar is code referenced from the finance pset and takes the user back to the login page.

