The program I chose to make is Playlist Maker. The premise of the program is to be able to enter any sentence, and then break down that sentence into its words and punctuation so that if a song exists in the spotify database that matches up to every word/puncutation in the sentence then a playlist is created with those songs. This essentially means a sentence can be turned into a playlist! I was originally planning on doing it using the spotify API and getting the user to log in. However, I had lots of trouble with the API and after trying for the whole of the hackathon to get it to work I was unable to, so chose to switch to a Kaggle Dataset which has over 1,000,000 songs. This would mean that I wouldn't lose the ability to access the breadth of the spotify data, but instead could maniuplate the CSV file rather than using the API to access the data. This ended up working much better and I was able to achieve my best outcome that I said in my project proposal!

To be able to compile and configure the code the file must be launched in the CS50 code space and then change the directory to finaleproject. Then run the command flask run, which should compile and launch the log in page. Once on the login page click register (it is underlined) and then from there insert a username, and password twice. The username should be unique ie. no other user has it, additionally the passwords should match, and nothing should be left blank. If any of these things are not correct then the apology page will be launched.

Once you are inside the program, you will be sent to the index page which has the usage of the program on it. These are
- Enter a sentence (or more) in the input box on the Make page, the majority of songs are in English but there may exist songs in other languages however there may be less success with those
- Don't worry about the capitalisation of words!
- If you are using punctuation put a space e.g. "Hello." would be written as "Hello ."
- There are a lot of songs in the database so it may take a while - please be patient!
- If a song with the word doesn't exist then the program will ask you to enter it again!
- If you enter a sentence with lots of the same words then it may not work as each song in the playlist is unique!
These give the user the rules of the input box and how to use it best so that their desired playlists can be crafted. Once these are read, press the open button which is on the top left of the screen. This will open the sidenav bar and show you the other pages you can go to. Now press the Make button to go to the page where you input the sentence. On this page you will see an input box, enter the sentence you want in this box. Then press create, it may take a while so be patient especially for longer sentences. Then if the playlist was created beneath the title it will say "Success creating playlist!", and if not it will say "Please input a valid sentence" and the input box will have been refreshed.

Once a successful playlist has been created you can go to the side navbar and press view. This then will take you to the history of all the playlists you have created. The playlist most recently created will be at the bottom of the page. Each playlist has the sentence as the title and a table with the songs of the playlist and the album they are from and the artist of the song. Then if you wish to logout you can go back to the side navbar and press the logout which will take you back to the login page.

The link to my youtube video is https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e30EEsDi0Mg.